#149: Workaround for GROUP BY <integer> (#150)
exasol/virtual-schema-common-jdbc: doc/changes/changes_11.0.1.md

# Virtual Schema Common JDBC 11.0.1, released 2023-07-10

Code name: Fix Issue With Integer Constants in `GROUP BY`

## Summary

This release fixes an issue with queries using `DISTINCT` or `GROUP BY` with integer constants. Exasol interprets integers in `GROUP BY` clauses as column numbers which could lead to invalid results or the following error:

```
42000:Wrong column number. Too small value 0 as select list column reference in GROUP BY (smallest possible value is 1)
```

> To fix this, VSCJ now replaces integer constants in `GROUP BY` clauses with a constant string. Please note that `GROUP BY <column-number>` is not affected by this and continues to work as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fix this, VSCJ now replaces integer constants in `GROUP BY` clauses with a constant string.

Please that you can still safely use `GROUP BY <column-number>` in your original query, since Exasol internally converts this to `GROUP BY "<column-name>"`, so that the virtual schema adapter can tell both situations apart.
```

# Virtual Schema Common JDBC 11.0.1, released 2023-07-10

Code name: Fix Issue With Integer Constants in `GROUP BY`

## Summary

This release fixes an issue with queries using `DISTINCT` with integer constants. The Exasol SQL processor turns `DISTINCT <integer>` into `GROUP BY <integer>` before push-down as an optimization. The adapter must not feed this back as Exasol interprets integers in `GROUP BY` clauses as column numbers which could lead to invalid results or the following error:

```
42000:Wrong column number. Too small value 0 as select list column reference in GROUP BY (smallest possible value is 1)
```

> To fix this, VSCJ now replaces integer constants in `GROUP BY` clauses with a constant string.

Author: Good catch! ✅
